ARGUABLY ALL COME BACK TO THE SAME STRUGGLE.
SAME STRUGGLE. HITTING THE OLD GUARD AGAINST
HITTING THE OLD GUARD AGAINST THEIR YOUNG RISING SCARS.
THEIR YOUNG RISING SCARS. JOINING ME NOW TODAY IS
JOINING ME NOW TODAY IS ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ.
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ. SOME OF THESE TENSIONS, WHAT IS
SOME OF THESE TENSIONS, WHAT IS HAPPENING IN VIRGINIA, WHAT I
HAPPENING IN VIRGINIA, WHAT I WE’RE SEEING WITH THE BACK AND
WE’RE SEEING WITH THE BACK AND FORTH FRANKLY WITH WHAT YOU’RE
FORTH FRANKLY WITH WHAT YOU’RE TRYING TO DO WITH CLIMATE
TRYING TO DO WITH CLIMATE CHANGE, HOW MUCH OF THIS, DO YOU
CHANGE, HOW MUCH OF THIS, DO YOU THINK IS GENERATIONAL OR SIDEI
THINK IS GENERATIONAL OR SIDEI OR IDOELOGICAL.
OR IDOELOGICAL. >> I DON’T THINK THE EMERGENCY
>> I DON’T THINK THE EMERGENCY AROUND CLIMATE CHANGE, ECONOMIC
AROUND CLIMATE CHANGE, ECONOMIC JUSTICE, IS JUST A YOUNG PEOPLE
JUSTICE, IS JUST A YOUNG PEOPLE THING, BUT I BELIEVE THAT LIKE
THING, BUT I BELIEVE THAT LIKE ALL BIG MOVEMENTS, THEY’RE
ALL BIG MOVEMENTS, THEY’RE REALLY ACCELERATING THE TIME
REALLY ACCELERATING THE TIME LINES TO REACH OUR GOALS.
LINES TO REACH OUR GOALS. >> WE DON’T HAVE SOMEONE TO SAY
>> WE DON’T HAVE SOMEONE TO SAY THIS IS A FIREABLE OFFENSE.
THIS IS A FIREABLE OFFENSE. THIS IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
THIS IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT QUESTION.
QUESTION. IT IS NOT JUST ABOUT WHO DID
IT IS NOT JUST ABOUT WHO DID WHAT, BUT IT IS ABOUT HOW OUR
WHAT, BUT IT IS ABOUT HOW OUR LEADERSHIP REALLY DEALS WITH THE
LEADERSHIP REALLY DEALS WITH THE THINGS THEY HAVE DONE.
THINGS THEY HAVE DONE. I THINK WHEN WE SEE A CRISIS OF
I THINK WHEN WE SEE A CRISIS OF CONFIDENCE WITH SOME OF THE
CONFIDENCE WITH SOME OF THE FOLKS IN VIRGINIA, IT IS THE WAY
FOLKS IN VIRGINIA, IT IS THE WAY THEY ARE HANDLING THESE ISSUES.
THEY ARE HANDLING THESE ISSUES. IT IS ARE WE USING THIS AS A
IT IS ARE WE USING THIS AS A MOMENT TO MODEL WHAT RACE LOOKS
MOMENT TO MODEL WHAT RACE LOOKS LIKE, AND IF YOU ARE SQUANDERING
LIKE, AND IF YOU ARE SQUANDERING THAT,
THAT, THAT.
THAT. >> GOVERNOR NORTHAM SAME I
>> GOVERNOR NORTHAM SAME I SHOULD STAY IN OFFICE.
SHOULD STAY IN OFFICE. >> IF THAT WERE TRUE, HE WOULD
>> IF THAT WERE TRUE, HE WOULD HAVE USED THIS MOMENT TO DO THIS
HAVE USED THIS MOMENT TO DO THIS AND YOU MIGHT HAVE SAIDLY GIVE
AND YOU MIGHT HAVE SAIDLY GIVE YOU A CHANCE TO STAY.
YOU A CHANCE TO STAY. >> WITH HIM, WHAT I WILL SAY IS
>> WITH HIM, WHAT I WILL SAY IS THAT THE DEGREE OF THE PHOTOS,
THAT THE DEGREE OF THE PHOTOS, TO THAT EXTENT, IN HIS SPECIFIC
TO THAT EXTENT, IN HIS SPECIFIC SITUATION, I DON’T THINK THERE
SITUATION, I DON’T THINK THERE WAS A WAY OUT OF IT.
WAS A WAY OUT OF IT. IN GENERAL IF THERE WAS AN
IN GENERAL IF THERE WAS AN ELECTED OFFICIAL THAT WAS IN
ELECTED OFFICIAL THAT WAS IN SOME DEGREE -- ANOTHER PERSON
SOME DEGREE -- ANOTHER PERSON WHO PROACTIVELY MADE A STATEMENT
WHO PROACTIVELY MADE A STATEMENT THAT SAID HEY WHEN I WAS 19 I
THAT SAID HEY WHEN I WAS 19 I HAD A MISTAKEN HALLOWEEN
HAD A MISTAKEN HALLOWEEN COSTUME, HERE IS WHAT I LEARNED
COSTUME, HERE IS WHAT I LEARNED ABOUT IT.
ABOUT IT. >> HOW YOU MODEL CLAIFR, AND IF
>> HOW YOU MODEL CLAIFR, AND IF YOU DON’T THERE IS NO ROOM TO
YOU DON’T THERE IS NO ROOM TO LEAD, SHE LEVER A LIED ACT
LEAD, SHE LEVER A LIED ACT ANYTHING, BUT SHE HAS NOT GIVEN
ANYTHING, BUT SHE HAS NOT GIVEN US THE FULLEST ANSWER YET.
US THE FULLEST ANSWER YET. WHAT DO YOU THINK SHE SHOULD DO?
WHAT DO YOU THINK SHE SHOULD DO? >> I THINK THERE IS WHO WAYS TO
>> I THINK THERE IS WHO WAYS TO TALK ABOUT IT, AND AGAIN WE CAN
TALK ABOUT IT, AND AGAIN WE CAN USE AND STILL HAVE AN
USE AND STILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY, I THINK HERE IN
OPPORTUNITY, I THINK HERE IN THIS SITUATION, I THINK THERE IS
THIS SITUATION, I THINK THERE IS STILL AN OPPORTUNITY TO MODEL
STILL AN OPPORTUNITY TO MODEL THE CORRECT WAY TO NAVIGATE WHAT
THE CORRECT WAY TO NAVIGATE WHAT THESE WATERS LOOK LIKE.
THESE WATERS LOOK LIKE. FOR EXAMPLE, I’M LATINA.
FOR EXAMPLE, I’M LATINA. AND LATINO AMERICANS HAVE AN
AND LATINO AMERICANS HAVE AN INTERESTING IDENTITY.
INTERESTING IDENTITY. ESPECIALLY FOR ME, MY IDENTITY
ESPECIALLY FOR ME, MY IDENTITY IS THE DESCENDENT OF MANY
IS THE DESCENDENT OF MANY DIFFERENT IDENTITIES.
DIFFERENT IDENTITIES. I SAM THE DESCENDENT OF SPANISH
I SAM THE DESCENDENT OF SPANISH COLONIZERS.
COLONIZERS. THAT DOESN’T MEAN THAT I’M BLACK
THAT DOESN’T MEAN THAT I’M BLACK OR NATIVE.
OR NATIVE. IT MEANS THAT I CAN USE THAT, I
IT MEANS THAT I CAN USE THAT, I CAN TELL THE STORY OF MY
CAN TELL THE STORY OF MY ANCESTORS THAT DOESN’T MEAN THAT
ANCESTORS THAT DOESN’T MEAN THAT I AM THAT.
I AM THAT. SO I THINK IN TERMS OF HOW WE
SO I THINK IN TERMS OF HOW WE NAVIGATE THAT, I LOOK FORWARD TO
NAVIGATE THAT, I LOOK FORWARD TO HER MODELLING A PROCESS.
HER MODELLING A PROCESS. >> HAS IT SHAKEN ANY CONCERN OF
>> HAS IT SHAKEN ANY CONCERN OF HER BEING A NOMINEE FOR THE
HER BEING A NOMINEE FOR THE PARTY?
PARTY? >> I THINK THEY ALL HAVE TIME.
>> I THINK THEY ALL HAVE TIME. >> WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR WHEN
>> WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR WHEN IT COMES TO THIS?
IT COMES TO THIS? EVERYONE THAT HAS ANNOUNCED
EVERYONE THAT HAS ANNOUNCED RUNNING HAS ENDORSED A DEAL.
RUNNING HAS ENDORSED A DEAL. LET’S BE FRANK, YOU GREETED A
LET’S BE FRANK, YOU GREETED A POLITICAL MOVEMENT, WHAT DO YOU
POLITICAL MOVEMENT, WHAT DO YOU LOOK FOR IN A PRESIDENTIAL
LOOK FOR IN A PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE THIS YEAR.
NOMINEE THIS YEAR. >> FIRST, I DON’T THINK I
>> FIRST, I DON’T THINK I CREATED A POLITICAL MOOUMT, I
CREATED A POLITICAL MOOUMT, I THINK I AM PART OF ONE, BUT I
THINK I AM PART OF ONE, BUT I THINK IN TERMS OF WHAT I LOOK
THINK IN TERMS OF WHAT I LOOK FOR.
FOR. I THINK IT IS THE UNDERSTANDING
I THINK IT IS THE UNDERSTANDING OF THIS MOMENT THAT WE’RE IN
OF THIS MOMENT THAT WE’RE IN RIGHT NOW AND THE ABILITY TO
RIGHT NOW AND THE ABILITY TO ARTICULATE IT.
ARTICULATE IT. I DON’T THINK A 2020 NOMINEE CAN
I DON’T THINK A 2020 NOMINEE CAN AFFORD TO BE BAD ON ISSUES OF
AFFORD TO BE BAD ON ISSUES OF RACE.
RACE. I DON’T THINK THEY CAN AFFORD TO
I DON’T THINK THEY CAN AFFORD TO BE BAD ON ISSUES OF ECONOMIC
BE BAD ON ISSUES OF ECONOMIC JUSTICE EITHER.
JUSTICE EITHER. >> WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THINGS
>> WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THINGS LIKE THE ROLE OF THE LABOR
LIKE THE ROLE OF THE LABOR BLOOUSMT.
BLOOUSMT. WHEN IT IS WAGES OR UNION JOBS.
WHEN IT IS WAGES OR UNION JOBS. THAT IS WHAT WE’RE FIGHTING FOR.
THAT IS WHAT WE’RE FIGHTING FOR. >> SO YOU SAID THAT ON THE
>> SO YOU SAID THAT ON THE ISSUES OF RACE, I THINK THOSE
ISSUES OF RACE, I THINK THOSE YOU WOULD ASSUME THAT YOU COULD
YOU WOULD ASSUME THAT YOU COULD NOT GET TRACTION ON THAT.
NOT GET TRACTION ON THAT. DO YOU HAVE TO SAY YOU’LL DO IT
DO YOU HAVE TO SAY YOU’LL DO IT OR IS BEING ASPIRING TO IT IN
OR IS BEING ASPIRING TO IT IN THE FUTURE ENOUGH FOR YOU?
THE FUTURE ENOUGH FOR YOU? >>.
>>. >> I THINK THAT WE NEED
>> I THINK THAT WE NEED COMMITMENTS WITH TEETH.
COMMITMENTS WITH TEETH. I DON’T WANT TO BE PLACATED.
I DON’T WANT TO BE PLACATED. >> WHAT IS THE DEFINITION.
>> WHAT IS THE DEFINITION. THEY LOVE MEDICARE FOR ALL, BUT
THEY LOVE MEDICARE FOR ALL, BUT THEY SAY IT IS NOT REALISTIC.
THEY SAY IT IS NOT REALISTIC. IS THAT A NONSTARTER FOR YOU?
IS THAT A NONSTARTER FOR YOU? >> FOR ME I REJECT THAT
>> FOR ME I REJECT THAT OUTRIGHT.
OUTRIGHT. I REJECT THE RATIONAL OF SAYING
I REJECT THE RATIONAL OF SAYING ADOPTING THE SAME OR SIMILAR
ADOPTING THE SAME OR SIMILAR INSURANCE MODELS IS UNREALISTIC.
INSURANCE MODELS IS UNREALISTIC. I REJECT THAT.
I REJECT THAT. I REJECT THE IDEA THAT SINGLE
I REJECT THE IDEA THAT SINGLE PAYER IS IMPOSSIBLE.
PAYER IS IMPOSSIBLE. I REJECT THE EYED THAT UNIVERSAL
I REJECT THE EYED THAT UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE IS POSSIBLE.
HEALTH CARE IS POSSIBLE. WHEN I TALK ABOUT WHAT I WANT IN
WHEN I TALK ABOUT WHAT I WANT IN A 2020 CANDIDATE, I WANT A
A 2020 CANDIDATE, I WANT A CANDIDATE THAT SAYS WE CAN DO
CANDIDATE THAT SAYS WE CAN DO THESE THINGS, WE CAN BE
THESE THINGS, WE CAN BE AUDACIOUS.
AUDACIOUS. TO OVERCOME THIS MOVEMENT WE
TO OVERCOME THIS MOVEMENT WE NEED TO RETURN TO OUR FDR ROOTS.
NEED TO RETURN TO OUR FDR ROOTS. >> ONE THING THAT FDR HAD, HE
>> ONE THING THAT FDR HAD, HE SAID SHE HAS THE GREAT NEW DEAL,
SAID SHE HAS THE GREAT NEW DEAL, HE SAID FDR HAD A MASSIVE
HE SAID FDR HAD A MASSIVE MAJORITY WHEN HE WENT TO PUSH
MAJORITY WHEN HE WENT TO PUSH HIS DEAL THROUGH.
HIS DEAL THROUGH. YOU DON’T HAVE A MASSIVE
YOU DON’T HAVE A MASSIVE MAJORITY.
MAJORITY. YOU DON’T HAVE MAJORITY AT ALL
YOU DON’T HAVE MAJORITY AT ALL ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CAPITAL.
CAPITAL. SO HOW DO YOU DO IT?
SO HOW DO YOU DO IT? >> SO THIS IS A BIG PART OF WHEN
>> SO THIS IS A BIG PART OF WHEN YOU BREAK DOWN OUR STRATEGY ON
YOU BREAK DOWN OUR STRATEGY ON THE NEW DEAL.
THE NEW DEAL. WHEN YOU GO BACK TO OUR REQUESTS
WHEN YOU GO BACK TO OUR REQUESTS IN THE FALL, WE SPOKE ABOUT THE
IN THE FALL, WE SPOKE ABOUT THE NEED TO DRAFT A BLUE BRING BY
NEED TO DRAFT A BLUE BRING BY 2020.
2020. IT IS SO THAT BY 2020 WE CAN GET
IT IS SO THAT BY 2020 WE CAN GET ALL OF THOSE CHESS PIECES IN
ALL OF THOSE CHESS PIECES IN ORDER.
ORDER. WE CAN GET A MAJORITY IN THE
WE CAN GET A MAJORITY IN THE HOUSE, THE SENATE, WE CAN
HOUSE, THE SENATE, WE CAN CAPTURE THE PRESIDENCY AND GET
CAPTURE THE PRESIDENCY AND GET THINGS DONE.
THINGS DONE. >> JOE MANCHIN, WE USED THE WORD
>> JOE MANCHIN, WE USED THE WORD COAL NINE TIMES ON TUESDAY, AND
COAL NINE TIMES ON TUESDAY, AND AT THE END OF THE DAY, CHUCK
AT THE END OF THE DAY, CHUCK SCHUMER HE WANTS TO FIND A 51
SCHUMER HE WANTS TO FIND A 51 SENATORS.
SENATORS. >> I THINK WHEN IT COMES TO
>> I THINK WHEN IT COMES TO MAKING THE COMPROMISES IT’S
MAKING THE COMPROMISES IT’S ABOUT THE LANDSCAPE WHEN WE GET
ABOUT THE LANDSCAPE WHEN WE GET THERE.
THERE. THERE ARE SOME THAT I THINK ARE
THERE ARE SOME THAT I THINK ARE ON THE TABLE IF WE HAVE JUST 51,
ON THE TABLE IF WE HAVE JUST 51, BUT I THINK SOME OF THOSE ARE
BUT I THINK SOME OF THOSE ARE OFF OF THE STABLE IF WE HAVE 60.
OFF OF THE STABLE IF WE HAVE 60. I CAN’T SPECULATE TO WHAT IT
I CAN’T SPECULATE TO WHAT IT WOULD BE FOR ANY VARIABLE MAKEUP
WOULD BE FOR ANY VARIABLE MAKEUP IN 2020, BUT WE CAN START OUR
IN 2020, BUT WE CAN START OUR ORGANIZE NOOIGZ AND BEING AS
ORGANIZE NOOIGZ AND BEING AS AGGRESSIVE AS POSSIBLE.
AGGRESSIVE AS POSSIBLE. >> WHAT IS THE BEST CASE FOR CON
>> WHAT IS THE BEST CASE FOR CON SERVETIVE LEADERS, THEY SEE WHAT
SERVETIVE LEADERS, THEY SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN FRANCE AND IT SEEMS
HAPPENED IN FRANCE AND IT SEEMS LIKE IT IMPACTS THE LOWER TO
LIKE IT IMPACTS THE LOWER TO MIDDLE LOWER CLASS MORE.
MIDDLE LOWER CLASS MORE. THAT IT WILL JUST TRICKLE DOWN
THAT IT WILL JUST TRICKLE DOWN TO THE WORKING LASS.
TO THE WORKING LASS. >> IT HAS IN FRANCE BECAUSE WE
>> IT HAS IN FRANCE BECAUSE WE ALLOWED THEM TO TAKE OVER WHO
ALLOWED THEM TO TAKE OVER WHO BEARS THE BURDEN FOR CARBON
BEARS THE BURDEN FOR CARBON TAXES.
TAXES. WHEN WE WORK AS A PROGRESSIVE
WHEN WE WORK AS A PROGRESSIVE MOVEMENT HERE, IT NEEDS TO BE
MOVEMENT HERE, IT NEEDS TO BE LEAD BY EVERY DAY PEOPLE, BY
LEAD BY EVERY DAY PEOPLE, BY WORKERS, IT NEEDS TO BE LEAD BY
WORKERS, IT NEEDS TO BE LEAD BY FRONT LINE COMMUNITIES.
FRONT LINE COMMUNITIES. IF WE DON’T DO THAT THAT IS WHAT
IF WE DON’T DO THAT THAT IS WHAT HAPPENS.
HAPPENS. AND BY THE WAY, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
AND BY THE WAY, WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHO IS ACTUALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR
WHO IS ACTUALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MAJORITY OF CARBON EMISSIONS
THE MAJORITY OF CARBON EMISSIONS EMISSIONS, IT IS THE TOP TEN
EMISSIONS, IT IS THE TOP TEN CORPORATIONS IN THE WORLD THAT
CORPORATIONS IN THE WORLD THAT ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR AN ENORMOUS
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF OUR CARBON OUTPUT.
AMOUNT OF OUR CARBON OUTPUT. IT SHOULD NOT BE MIDDLE CLASS
IT SHOULD NOT BE MIDDLE CLASS AMERICANS AND EVERY DAY PEOPLE
AMERICANS AND EVERY DAY PEOPLE THAT BEAR THAT BURDEN AND IT
THAT BEAR THAT BURDEN AND IT SHOULD NOT BE A GAS TAX AT THE
SHOULD NOT BE A GAS TAX AT THE PUMP.
PUMP. IT SHOULD BE THE CORPORATIONS
IT SHOULD BE THE CORPORATIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR SOILING --
RESPONSIBLE FOR SOILING -- RATHER FOR POLLUTING OUR WATER
RATHER FOR POLLUTING OUR WATER AND AIR.
AND AIR. >> HOW DO YOU ENVISION VIE
>> HOW DO YOU ENVISION VIE FANSING THIS.
FANSING THIS. HOW DO YOU INVISION VIE FANSING
HOW DO YOU INVISION VIE FANSING THIS?
THIS? >> THERE IS A COUPLE THICKS.
>> THERE IS A COUPLE THICKS. ONE IS THAT I THINK ONE WAY THAT
ONE IS THAT I THINK ONE WAY THAT THE THEY TRY TO MISCHARACTERIZE
THE THEY TRY TO MISCHARACTERIZE WHAT WE’RE DOING IS LIKE IT IS A
WHAT WE’RE DOING IS LIKE IT IS A MASSIVE GOVERNMENT TAKEOVER.
MASSIVE GOVERNMENT TAKEOVER. WHAT WE’RE TRYING TO DO, IT’S
WHAT WE’RE TRYING TO DO, IT’S OBVIOUSLY NOT THAT BECAUSE WHAT
OBVIOUSLY NOT THAT BECAUSE WHAT WE’RE TRYING TO DO IS RELEASE
WE’RE TRYING TO DO IS RELEASE THE INVESTMENTS FROM THE FEDERAL
THE INVESTMENTS FROM THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO MOBILIZE THOSE
GOVERNMENT TO MOBILIZE THOSE RESOURCES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
RESOURCES ACROSS THE COUNTRY. HOW DO WE GET THERE?
HOW DO WE GET THERE? IT CAN COME ACROSS A WIDE RANGE
IT CAN COME ACROSS A WIDE RANGE OF THINGS.
OF THINGS. TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY STYLE
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY STYLE PUBLIC PROGRAMS, PUBLIC PRIVATE
PUBLIC PROGRAMS, PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS, IT CAN WORK ON A
PARTNERSHIPS, IT CAN WORK ON A MUNICIPAL LEVEL.
MUNICIPAL LEVEL. IT’S NOT AS THOUGH THE FEDERAL
IT’S NOT AS THOUGH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL WAVE AND WAND
GOVERNMENT WILL WAVE AND WAND AND SAY WE’RE GOING TO DO IT
AND SAY WE’RE GOING TO DO IT OURSELVES.
OURSELVES. SECONDLY I THINK A BIG ISSUE,
SECONDLY I THINK A BIG ISSUE, TOO, IS THAT WE HAVE TO REALLY
TOO, IS THAT WE HAVE TO REALLY ADDRESS THE FACT THAT THERE HAS
ADDRESS THE FACT THAT THERE HAS BEEN A BROKEN METAPHOR OF THE
BEEN A BROKEN METAPHOR OF THE GOVERNMENT AS THIS ONE IN AND
GOVERNMENT AS THIS ONE IN AND ONE OUT PIGGY BANK THAT
ONE OUT PIGGY BANK THAT REPUBLICANS LIKE TO SAY APPLIES
REPUBLICANS LIKE TO SAY APPLIES TO DEMOCRATIC PROGRAMS, BUT WHEN
TO DEMOCRATIC PROGRAMS, BUT WHEN IT IS THEIR TURN AT THE HELM,
IT IS THEIR TURN AT THE HELM, THEY JUST CUT WHATEVER CHECK
THEY JUST CUT WHATEVER CHECK THEY WANT TO CUT WHICH IS WHAT
THEY WANT TO CUT WHICH IS WHAT THEY DID WITH THE TAX CUT BILL,
THEY DID WITH THE TAX CUT BILL, BUT THE TAX CUT BILL THEY LIED
BUT THE TAX CUT BILL THEY LIED ABOUT IT.
ABOUT IT. WE KNOW FOR EVERY DOLLAR YOU CUT
WE KNOW FOR EVERY DOLLAR YOU CUT IN TAXES YOU GET JUST A COUPLE
IN TAXES YOU GET JUST A COUPLE CENTS BACK.
CENTS BACK. BUT FOR EVERY DOLLAR YOU INVEST
BUT FOR EVERY DOLLAR YOU INVEST IN INFRASTRUCTURE IN BUILDING IN
IN INFRASTRUCTURE IN BUILDING IN JOBS YOU GET MORE THAN A DOLLAR
JOBS YOU GET MORE THAN A DOLLAR BACK.
BACK. >> A LITTLE PARTY POLITICS
>> A LITTLE PARTY POLITICS QUESTION I HAVE TO ASK YOU.
QUESTION I HAVE TO ASK YOU. YOU’RE NOT -- YOU ROLLED THIS
YOU’RE NOT -- YOU ROLLED THIS OUT TODAY WITH SENATOR MARKIE ON
OUT TODAY WITH SENATOR MARKIE ON THIS.
THIS. YOU WEREN’T ON THE CLIMATE
YOU WEREN’T ON THE CLIMATE CHANGE YOU SAID YOU WERE INVITED
CHANGE YOU SAID YOU WERE INVITED TO BE ON IT AND YOU DIDN’T.
TO BE ON IT AND YOU DIDN’T. >> I DO WANT TO BE ON IT, BUT --
>> I DO WANT TO BE ON IT, BUT -- >> THEN WHY AREN’T YOU?
>> THEN WHY AREN’T YOU? I’M SORRY, BUT IT MAKES SENSE TO
I’M SORRY, BUT IT MAKES SENSE TO ME TO PUT YOU ON IT.
ME TO PUT YOU ON IT. >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. A LOT OF IT FRANKLY IS TIMING
A LOT OF IT FRANKLY IS TIMING AND LOGISTICS.
AND LOGISTICS. WE ANNOUNCED OUR COMMITTEE
WE ANNOUNCED OUR COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS, I DIDN’T KNOW IF I
ASSIGNMENTS, I DIDN’T KNOW IF I WOULD BE ASKED OR SELECTED FOR
WOULD BE ASKED OR SELECTED FOR THE SELECT COMMITTEE AT THAT
THE SELECT COMMITTEE AT THAT TIME.
TIME. SO I WANTED TO MAXIMIZE MY
SO I WANTED TO MAXIMIZE MY STANDING COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS.
STANDING COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS. SO I WAS ABLE TO GET ON
SO I WAS ABLE TO GET ON FINANCIAL SERVICES WHICH IS ONE
FINANCIAL SERVICES WHICH IS ONE OF A HANDFUL OF EXCLUSIVE
OF A HANDFUL OF EXCLUSIVE COMMITTEES, AND I’M ON THE
COMMITTEES, AND I’M ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL SUB COMMITTEE OF
ENVIRONMENTAL SUB COMMITTEE OF OVERSIGHT, WHICH IS ALSO A VERY
OVERSIGHT, WHICH IS ALSO A VERY HIGH PROFILE COMMITTEE.
HIGH PROFILE COMMITTEE. AND SO WITH THAT, I’M ALSO ON
AND SO WITH THAT, I’M ALSO ON FOUR SUB COMMITTEES, SO WHEN I
FOUR SUB COMMITTEES, SO WHEN I GOT THE CALL RECENTLY TO GET ON
GOT THE CALL RECENTLY TO GET ON THE SELECT COMMITTEE, I DIDN’T
THE SELECT COMMITTEE, I DIDN’T FEEL LIKE I WOULD BE ABLE TO DO
FEEL LIKE I WOULD BE ABLE TO DO IT JUSTICE, BUT AN AMAZING
IT JUSTICE, BUT AN AMAZING CLIMATE ACTIVIST IS ON IT.
CLIMATE ACTIVIST IS ON IT. >> YOU DON’T FEEL LIKE IT IS A
>> YOU DON’T FEEL LIKE IT IS A SNUB AT ALL?
SNUB AT ALL? >> I TRULY DO NOT.
>> I TRULY DO NOT. THE SPEAKER WAS GRACIOUS ENOUGH
THE SPEAKER WAS GRACIOUS ENOUGH TO INVITE ME ON IT, I THINK FOR
TO INVITE ME ON IT, I THINK FOR ME IT WAS --
ME IT WAS -- >> WOULD YOU HAVE HAD TO GIVE UP
>> WOULD YOU HAVE HAD TO GIVE UP SOMETHING TO GET ON IT?
SOMETHING TO GET ON IT? WAS THAT THE DEAL?
WAS THAT THE DEAL? >> NO.
>> NO. >> WOULD YOU HAVE TO GIVE UP
>> WOULD YOU HAVE TO GIVE UP FINANCIAL SERVICES TO DO THIS?
FINANCIAL SERVICES TO DO THIS? >> I WOULD HAVE TO GIVE UP DOING
>> I WOULD HAVE TO GIVE UP DOING MY JOB WELL IS HOW I FEEL, AND I
MY JOB WELL IS HOW I FEEL, AND I DON’T WANT TO GIVE THAT UP.
DON’T WANT TO GIVE THAT UP. >> HOW COMMITTED IS SPEAKER
>> HOW COMMITTED IS SPEAKER PELOSI TO THE GREEN NEW DEAL.
PELOSI TO THE GREEN NEW DEAL. SOME PEOPLE THOUGHT SHE WAS
SOME PEOPLE THOUGHT SHE WAS BEING DISMISSIVE, YOU DID NOT
BEING DISMISSIVE, YOU DID NOT TAKE IT AS DISMISSIVE.
TAKE IT AS DISMISSIVE. DO YOU THINK THAT SHE IS BOUGHT?
DO YOU THINK THAT SHE IS BOUGHT? ?
? >> FOR ME WHAT I INTRODUCED
>> FOR ME WHAT I INTRODUCED TODAY WAS A RESOLUTION, NOT A
TODAY WAS A RESOLUTION, NOT A BILL.
BILL. A RESOLUTION JUST HAS TO PASS
A RESOLUTION JUST HAS TO PASS THE HOUSE AND IT IS NOT A PLAN,
THE HOUSE AND IT IS NOT A PLAN, IT IS THE SCOPE OF THE PLAN, I
IT IS THE SCOPE OF THE PLAN, I THINK IN TERMS OF THE SCOPE OF
THINK IN TERMS OF THE SCOPE OF THE PLAN, I THINK WE WILL GET
THE PLAN, I THINK WE WILL GET THERE.
THERE. WE LAUNCHED WITH 60 COSPONSORS
WE LAUNCHED WITH 60 COSPONSORS IN THE HOUSE.
IN THE HOUSE. THAT IS PRETTY CRAZY.
THAT IS PRETTY CRAZY. WE WERE ABLE TO LAUNCH ON DAY
WE WERE ABLE TO LAUNCH ON DAY ONE WITH 60 COSPONSORS.
ONE WITH 60 COSPONSORS. WE HAVE MORE ROLLING IN AND WE
WE HAVE MORE ROLLING IN AND WE MAY GET A MAJORITY OF THE CAUCUS
MAY GET A MAJORITY OF THE CAUCUS IN THERE.
IN THERE. THE PRESIDENT SPENT A LOT OF
THE PRESIDENT SPENT A LOT OF TIME ON SOCIALISM AND
TIME ON SOCIALISM AND SOCIALISTS.
SOCIALISTS. IT WAS NOT TOO SURE IF IF WAS A
IT WAS NOT TOO SURE IF IF WAS A DIG OR ENHANCEMENT.
DIG OR ENHANCEMENT. CAN YOU BE A DEMOCRATIC
CAN YOU BE A DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST AND A CAPITALIST?
SOCIALIST AND A CAPITALIST? >> I THINK IT DEPENDS ON YOUR
>> I THINK IT DEPENDS ON YOUR INTERPRETATION.
INTERPRETATION. SOME SOCIALISTS WOULD SAY
SOME SOCIALISTS WOULD SAY ABSOLUTELY NOT, OTHERS WOULD SAY
ABSOLUTELY NOT, OTHERS WOULD SAY YOU KNOW I THINK IT IS POSSIBLE.
YOU KNOW I THINK IT IS POSSIBLE. >> WHAT ARE YOU?
>> WHAT ARE YOU? >> I THINK IT IS POSSIBLE.
>> I THINK IT IS POSSIBLE. >> DO YOU THINK I’M A
>> DO YOU THINK I’M A CAPITALIST, BUT --
CAPITALIST, BUT -- >> NO, I DON’T SAY THAT, I WOULD
>> NO, I DON’T SAY THAT, I WOULD SAY THAT I BELIEVE IN A
SAY THAT I BELIEVE IN A DEMOCRATIC ECONOMY, BUT -- BUT
DEMOCRATIC ECONOMY, BUT -- BUT THE BUT IS THERE.
THE BUT IS THERE. SO IF YOU’RE COMING FROM
SO IF YOU’RE COMING FROM ELIZABETH WARREN’S PERSPECTIVE,
ELIZABETH WARREN’S PERSPECTIVE, SHE SAYS I’M A CAPITALIST, BUT
SHE SAYS I’M A CAPITALIST, BUT WE NEED HARD RULES FOR THE GAME.
WE NEED HARD RULES FOR THE GAME. IF YOU SAY GOVERNMENT SHOULD SAY
IF YOU SAY GOVERNMENT SHOULD SAY OUT OF X, WHAT DO THEY DO
OUT OF X, WHAT DO THEY DO BETTER?
BETTER? >> I THINK THERE IS A LOT OF
>> I THINK THERE IS A LOT OF CONSUMER GOODS.
CONSUMER GOODS. AND I THINK THERE IS A WAY TO
AND I THINK THERE IS A WAY TO DELINEATE THAT JUST BECAUSE
DELINEATE THAT JUST BECAUSE YOU’RE IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR,
YOU’RE IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR, YOU CAN BE A DEMOCRATICALLY
YOU CAN BE A DEMOCRATICALLY SOCIAL BUSINESS.
SOCIAL BUSINESS. IT IS NOT ABOUT GOVERNMENT
IT IS NOT ABOUT GOVERNMENT TAKEOVER, IT IS ABOUT HOW MUCH
TAKEOVER, IT IS ABOUT HOW MUCH DO WORKERS HAVE A SAY IN YOUR
DO WORKERS HAVE A SAY IN YOUR BUSINESS.
BUSINESS. DO YOU HAVE WORKERS ON THE
DO YOU HAVE WORKERS ON THE BOARD.
BOARD. DO THEY ENJOY THE WEALTH THEY
DO THEY ENJOY THE WEALTH THEY ARE CREATING?
ARE CREATING? OR IS THE MA CHORTY OF THE --
OR IS THE MA CHORTY OF THE -- MAJORITY OF THE PROFITS GOING
MAJORITY OF THE PROFITS GOING SOMEWHERE ELSE.
SOMEWHERE ELSE. IT IS NOT THAT ONE SECTOR IS
IT IS NOT THAT ONE SECTOR IS SOCIALISTS AND ONE IS NOT.
SOCIALISTS AND ONE IS NOT. IT’S A MORE NUANCED
IT’S A MORE NUANCED UNDERSTANDING OF HOW OUR ECONOMY
UNDERSTANDING OF HOW OUR ECONOMY SHOULD WORK.
SHOULD WORK. >> SOMEONE WITH AN INTERESTING
>> SOMEONE WITH AN INTERESTING PERSPECTIVE ON THIS ISSUE WAS
PERSPECTIVE ON THIS ISSUE WAS SENATE ER
SENATE ER SENATOR CLAIRE McCASKILL SAYING
SENATOR CLAIRE McCASKILL SAYING IT IS EASY TO BE A DEMOCRATIC
IT IS EASY TO BE A DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST IN A BLUE DISTRICT
SOCIALIST IN A BLUE DISTRICT LIKE YOURS.
LIKE YOURS. HOW DO YOU SQUARE THAT WITH THE
HOW DO YOU SQUARE THAT WITH THE ABILITY TO FIND A MAJORITY?
ABILITY TO FIND A MAJORITY? >> I SQUARE IT WITH THE DIRECT
>> I SQUARE IT WITH THE DIRECT EVIDENCE IN 2016 THAT THAT IS
EVIDENCE IN 2016 THAT THAT IS NOT TRUE.
NOT TRUE. NO MATTER HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT
NO MATTER HOW YOU FEEL ABOUT SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS HE RAN IN
SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS HE RAN IN 2016 AS A DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST,
2016 AS A DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST, UNAPOLOGETIC
UNAPOLOGETIC UNAPOLOGETICALLY.
UNAPOLOGETICALLY. >> IN PRIMARIES, AMONG
>> IN PRIMARIES, AMONG DEMOCRATS, BUT THOSE
DEMOCRATS, BUT THOSE INDEPENDENTS, RIGHT?
INDEPENDENTS, RIGHT? >> AND HE WINS INDENT.
>> AND HE WINS INDENT. PEOPLE HAVE A MISTAKEN IDEA THAT
PEOPLE HAVE A MISTAKEN IDEA THAT AMERICAN PICKS IS ON ONE LYNN
AMERICAN PICKS IS ON ONE LYNN YARD LINE.
YARD LINE. 40% OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
40% OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC IDENTIFIES AS INDEPENDENTS, THAT
IDENTIFIES AS INDEPENDENTS, THAT DOESN’T MEAN WE’RE?
DOESN’T MEAN WE’RE? THE MIDDLE, IT MEANS WE HATE
THE MIDDLE, IT MEANS WE HATE THAT THING.
THAT THING. SOME ARE FREAKING OUT ABOUT IT
SOME ARE FREAKING OUT ABOUT IT BUT I’M COMING FROM SOMEONE THAT
BUT I’M COMING FROM SOMEONE THAT SAYS MORE COMPETITION IS BETTER
SAYS MORE COMPETITION IS BETTER NOT WORSE.
NOT WORSE. >> FOUR OR FIVE I THINK THAT IS
>> FOUR OR FIVE I THINK THAT IS FINE.
FINE. I THINK THAT IS -- IT SOUNDS
I THINK THAT IS -- IT SOUNDS LIKE THE TWO MAJOR PARTIES YOU
LIKE THE TWO MAJOR PARTIES YOU THINK DON’T EVERYBODY THIS WELL.
THINK DON’T EVERYBODY THIS WELL. >> I THINK THAT IS TOTALLY FINE
>> I THINK THAT IS TOTALLY FINE TO SAY A TWO PARTY SYSTEM IN
TO SAY A TWO PARTY SYSTEM IN THIS TIME OF GRIDLOCK IS A
THIS TIME OF GRIDLOCK IS A DIFFICULT THING TO NAVIGATE.
DIFFICULT THING TO NAVIGATE. AND IT IS -- I THINK IT IS
AND IT IS -- I THINK IT IS VIABLE, IT IS A NORMAL THING TO
VIABLE, IT IS A NORMAL THING TO SAY AFTER YEARS AND YEARS AND
SAY AFTER YEARS AND YEARS AND DECADES OF GRIDLOCK WHERE THEY
DECADES OF GRIDLOCK WHERE THEY SAY MAYBE SOMETHING HERE IS
SAY MAYBE SOMETHING HERE IS FRULLY WRONG.
FRULLY WRONG. IN TERMS OF THAT AS A
IN TERMS OF THAT AS A CONVERSATION, I THINK THAT IS A
CONVERSATION, I THINK THAT IS A FINE DEVGS TO HAVE.
FINE DEVGS TO HAVE. I THINK THAT COMES DOWN TO
I THINK THAT COMES DOWN TO STATES AND CITY MUNICIPALITYIESM
STATES AND CITY MUNICIPALITYIESM >> ARE YOU STILL FEELING THE
>> ARE YOU STILL FEELING THE BERN?
BERN? >> I LOVE SENATOR SANDERS.
>> I LOVE SENATOR SANDERS. I THINK HE IS GREAT.
I THINK HE IS GREAT. I THINK IN TERMS OF AN
I THINK IN TERMS OF AN ENDORSEMENT, I USUALLY SAY DON’T
ENDORSEMENT, I USUALLY SAY DON’T ASK ME UNTIL THE DAY OF A
ASK ME UNTIL THE DAY OF A PRIMARY.
PRIMARY. I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING THAT
I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING THAT WE IMMEDIATE TO UNDERSTAND IS I
WE IMMEDIATE TO UNDERSTAND IS I HOPE WE USE THIS PRIMARY NOT AS
HOPE WE USE THIS PRIMARY NOT AS A HORSE RACE AROUND
A HORSE RACE AROUND PERSONALITIES, BUT AROUND OUR
PERSONALITIES, BUT AROUND OUR VALUES.
VALUES. >> DO YOU WANT IT TO BE ANNIZE
>> DO YOU WANT IT TO BE ANNIZE LODGE
LODGE -- IDEOLOGICAL PARTY.
-- IDEOLOGICAL PARTY. >> I THINK THAT WE SHOULD NOT
>> I THINK THAT WE SHOULD NOT SOLELY BASED ON WHAT WE THINK
SOLELY BASED ON WHAT WE THINK WILL BE SUBJECT TO SCRUTINY FROM
WILL BE SUBJECT TO SCRUTINY FROM THE OTHER PARTY.
THE OTHER PARTY. I DON’T THINK THAT IS A WAY OF
I DON’T THINK THAT IS A WAY OF DOING ANYTHING.
DOING ANYTHING. THAT LEADS TO US GOVERNING FROM
THAT LEADS TO US GOVERNING FROM FEAR, CASTING VOTES FROM FEAR,
FEAR, CASTING VOTES FROM FEAR, AND I DON’T THINK THAT WE GET
AND I DON’T THINK THAT WE GET ANYTHING DONE.
ANYTHING DONE. I THINK THE STRONGEST POSITION
I THINK THE STRONGEST POSITION IS TO KNOW OUR VALUES AND BE